CONTRIBUTING.md - Various Rules and Advice
=====

Commits:
--------

* All affected code (directly or indirectly) must be tested with and succeed in the appropriate JUnit tests before a merge can be considered.
    * This only affects code that actually has JUnit tests (like the game logic) and only once they actually have tests in place
    * Other bits of code (like the GUI files) should be verified as working through other means before merging.

* If the chosen branch is made for a swift burst of development, the maintainer *may* be more lax in reviewing the submitted code.

* Additionally, if unfinished code is to be handed over for another team member to work on, it does not *need* to pass all tests (or any at all), depending on how finished it is supposed to be.

Branches:
---------

* We split the workflow into feature branches.
    * Developers may branch out when they feel like it, but they must tell the other members of the team

(never mind that we ended up with what was basically personal branches most of the time)

Git Gud @ Git:
--------------

* Create new branches here at GitLab, for convenience's sake.
* Use `git checkout <branchname>` to switch - thus *setting up a local branch to track the remote*.
* Use `git pull` to pull from your tracked remote branch, use `git pull origin master` to pull from master.
* Add files to commit from within IntelliJ or using `git add <path-to-file>`.
* See what you've got staged for commit using `git status` - **verify that you got the files you wanted**
* Commit the changes using `git commit -m "<message>"`, and then:
* Use `git push` to push to your branch (do this **often** so that others may give it a look).
    * If you wish to merge with master, use the link in the output of that command, or do it from the webpage.

Documentation:
--------------

* JavaDoc comments should be present on all methods and classes where further explanation is deemed necessary, or at least potentially helpful.

```java
    /**
     * Info about the class
     * 
     * Inspired/Written by That Other Person, see --> or something like that
     * <a href="link">link text</a> --> same line in Javadoc
     * Licensed under LICENSE --> if it has a specific license
     *
     * @author That Other Person --> if it isn't just inspired by the person
     * @author Yourself
     */
    public class SomeClass {

        /**
        * Explanation
        *
        * @param    someParameter is [what it is]
        * @return   [what the value/object it returns is]
        */
        public Type someMethod(Type someParameter) {
            // do something
            return something;
        }
        
    }
```

Structure:
----------

Based on the sample repo Nils made

* **javadoc** for storing the JavaDoc, in his case it's automatically generated by the .gitlab-cy.yml file
 
* **lib** is where various libraries we end up using will be put

* **src/project-name**

    * **data** contains the classes we *store* data in
        * **game** contains the core game logic
        * **user** contains whatever handles login and registration
        * **util** contains various utility classes that don't fit in elsewhere
        
    * **repo** contains classes for filling the objects from above with data and handling other database things
        * ~~do we need subdirectories here at all? idk~~
        * **sql** the lonely subdirectory where we stash all our SQL scripts
    
    * **view** contains the GUI (and other client-specific classes, I'd guess) --> actually MainApp in root dir
        * **controller** contains controller classes, for communicating with the actual game aso.
        * **fxml** contains FXML files
        * ~~we might want another directory but idk what to name it~~
        * **stage** contains classes specific to the matter of switching scenes
        
***

Back to [README](README.md)